
 This folder contains the needed files to run freeling under dockers.


 1.  Dowload and install dockers

     Visit https://docs.docker.com and get docker engine for your OS.

     Follow the instructions you'll find at the appropriate URL, depending 
     on your OS:
       https://docs.docker.com/linux
       https://docs.docker.com/mac
       https://docs.docker.com/windows

     Once installed, make sure the docker engine is running (you may need 
     to restart your computer)


 2.- Build freeling docker:

     Note that you do not need to download FreeLing source previously.
     You only need docker and the Dockerfile, and it will download all 
     required source code
 
     Move to the folder where the file 'Dockerfile' is located, and run:

       docker build -t freeling .

     This will download many stuff, compile freeling, and create a docker image.
     It may take some time, specially on slow network connections or slow CPUs.

     This step needs to be execute only once.



 3.- Use freeling docker

     Once the image is build, you can run freeling trough dockers (see FreeLing 
     user manual for details on available options for 'analyze')

        docker run -i --rm  freeling analyze -f en.cfg <input.txt >output.txt

     You can also launch 'analyze' in server mode (see freeling user manual
     for details)

        docker run -it --rm -p 50005:50005 freeling analyze -f es.cfg --server -p 50005

     Analyzer server is running and waiting for client requests.

     To connect to analyzer server you'll need to find out the IP of 
     the container. Run:

        docker ps -a

     You'll get somenthing like:

       CONTAINER ID    IMAGE      COMMAND                  CREATED        ...    
       6f6decd8a9ec    freeling   "analyze -f en.cfg.."    3 minutes ago  ...

    Use the "Container ID" to query docker for its IP

        docker inspect --format '{{ .NetworkSettings.IPAddress }}' 6f6decd8a9ec

    This will give the IP of the container (e.g. 172.17.0.2), which you can 
    use to connect your client, e.g.:

      analyzer_client 172.17.0.2:50005 <input.txt >output.txt

    "analyzer_client" is an example client distributed with FreeLing source. 
    You can use it as a basis to write your own client.

    DISCLAIMER 1:  FreeLing server mode is provided just as an example, 
                  and may not be reliable enouhg to be used in a high-performance 
                  client-server production environment.  Use it at your own risk.

    DISCLAIMER 2:  FreeLing is a library intended to be used to develop your
                  own language processing applications. FreeLing "analyze" 
                  (either in standalone or in server mode) is just an *example*
                  program that offers access to many FreeLing functionalities, 
                  but not all of them.
                   If "analyzer" does not adjust to your needs, or if you want
                  to better exploit FreeLing capabilities, consider writting 
                  your own program to call the library (APIs are provided 
                  for C++, Java, PHP, Python, Perl, and Ruby).
